# IMDb Search Automation using Page Object Model

## Overview:
This project automates the process of searching for an actor or celebrity on IMDb using Selenium WebDriver and follows the **Page Object Model (POM)** design pattern. 
It allows users to input the name, birthdate, and gender of a person, and it performs a search on IMDb. 
The objective of the project is to automatically fill out a search form on IMDb based on predefined data and verify the results.

## Table of Contents:
- [Features](#Features)
- [Prerequisites](#prerequisites)
- [Installation](#installation)
- [Project Structure](#project-structure)
- [Code Explanation](#Code-Explanation)
- [Running the test](#Running-the-test)

## Features
- Automated web search on IMDb for a specific name, birthday, and gender.
  
- Uses Selenium WebDriver for automation.
  
- Contains a search functionality that automatically fills the search form.
  
- Verifies that the expected URL is reached after the search is performed.

## Prerequisites
- Python 3.x
- Required libraries:
  - `selenium`
  - `pytest`
  - `webdriver-manager`

 ## Installation:
To successfully set up and run the Selenium Automation Testing Project, follow these steps:

1. Ensure that you have Python 3.x installed on your machine. You can download it from  [python.org](https://www.python.org/).

2. Familiarity with command-line interface (CLI) tools is recommended for executing commands.

3. Set Up a Virtual Environment (Optional but Recommended):
   - It's best practice to create a virtual environment to manage dependencies for your project:
     
     - Verify Python Virtual Environment: `Virtualenv --version`
       
     - Create Virtual Environment:  `virtualenv cd`
       
     - Activate Virtual Environment:  `Scripts\Activate`
       
     - Deactivate Virtual Environment: `Scripts\Deactivate`
       
4.  Install Required Libraries:
    - Install the necessary Python libraries using pip. The required libraries for this project include:
      - __Selenium :__ For web browser automation.
        Install Python Selenium Module: `pip install selenium`
        
      - __Pytest :__ For running test cases and managing test execution.
        `pip install pytest`
         Pytest Report: `pip install pytest-html`
        
      - __Webdriver-manager :__ To automatically manage browser drivers.
          Install WebDriver Manager Module: `pip install webdriver-manager`

## Project Structure
```python
Task-26/
├── Pages/                                # Contains the core automation logic and page classes
│   └── ImdbSearch.py                     # Automates the IMDb search process by interacting with the IMDb page
│       └── class ImdbSearch:             # Main class to automate the IMDb search process.
│           ├── def imdb_search():        # Method to perform the IMDb search with name, birthday, and gender.
│           └── def close_driver():       # Method to close the WebDriver.
├── Resources/                            # Contains configuration data and locators for page elements
│   ├── Data.py                           # Stores basic search data (e.g., name, date of birth, expected URL)
│   └── Locators.py                       # Stores locators (XPath and CSS selectors) for IMDb search elements
│
├── Test/                                 # Contains the test scripts
│   └── test_imdb_search.py               # Pytest-based test script to validate IMDb search functionality
│
├── Report/                               # Directory for storing test reports generated by pytest
│   └── imdb.html                         # Pytest html report
│
└── README.md                             # This file (Project Documentation)

```

## Code Explanation
- __Resources:__
Contains configuration data, such as search parameters, and locators for the page elements.

  -  __Data.py:__ Contains default search parameters such as the IMDb search URL, the name to search for, and the expected URL after performing the search.
 
  -  __Locators.py:__ Contains XPath or CSS selectors used to locate elements on the IMDb page (e.g., the search input, gender button, and birthday input).
    
- __Pages:__
  - __ImdbSearch Class:__ Handles the web automation logic using Selenium, including:

    - Entering the name, birthday, and gender into the IMDb search form.
  
    - Clicking the "See Results" button and returning the URL after the search.
   
### Methods in `ImdbSearch` class:
- __ __init()__:__
  
  - Initializes the WebDriver, ActionChains (for simulating actions), and waits for elements to be interactable.
  
  - Opens and maximize the DragAndDrop page (https://www.imdb.com/search/name/).
   
- __imdb_search():__
Performs the following tasks:
  - Scrolls down to load additional content.
      
  - Inputs the search name ("Jackie Chan").
      
  - Inputs the birthday ("04-07").
      
  - Selects the gender ("Male").
     
   - Clicks the "See results" button.
      
   - Returns the current URL after the search.

 - __close_driver():__
   - Closes the browser after the operation is complete.


- __Test:__
  Contains test scripts to validate that the automation works as expected.

  - __test_imdb_search.py:__ A test script that uses pytest to verify if the IMDb search is working correctly, comparing the actual URL with the expected URL.
 
- __Report:__
  Directory to store any reports generated by the test suite (e.g., HTML reports generated by pytest).

  - __imdb.html :__ HTML report generated by pytest
 
## Running the test:
- To run the tests using pytest, run the following command:

  ```
     pytest -v -s --capture=sys --html=Reports\imdb.html test_imdb_search.py
  ```
  
  - This will execute the test case and check if the final search URL matches the expected URL. If the test passes, you’ll see a success message in the terminal.
      






